Naropil Children Foundation - Full Stack System

A complete, production-ready full-stack application customized for an NGO.

Architecture Highlights

Strict Separation: The backend (server.js) and frontend (index.html) are completely decoupled. The frontend communicates with the backend solely via REST API endpoints.

No Frontend Framework: The frontend uses pure vanilla JavaScript to create a lightning-fast Single Page Application (SPA), styled cleanly with Tailwind CSS.

M-Pesa Integrated: Safaricom Daraja API logic is built into the backend (/api/mpesa/stkpush & /api/mpesa/callback) to securely handle donations.

Security: JWT Authentication, bcrypt password hashing, parameterized SQL queries, and CORS configuration.

Setup Instructions

1. Database Setup

Ensure MySQL is running on your system.

Execute the schema.sql file in your MySQL environment to create the naropil_db database, tables, and the default admin user.

2. Backend Setup

Create a new folder named server.

Move server.js and .env.example into this folder.

Rename .env.example to .env and fill in your actual database credentials and Safaricom M-Pesa sandbox/production keys.

Initialize Node and install dependencies:

npm init -y
npm install express cors dotenv mysql2 bcryptjs jsonwebtoken axios helmet


Start the server:

node server.js


(The server will run on port 5000).

3. Frontend Setup

The frontend is entirely contained in index.html.

Simply open index.html in your browser, or host it using a simple live server (like VS Code Live Server).

Important Configuration: At the bottom of index.html in the <script> tag, find const API_URL = 'http://localhost:5000/api';. If you deploy the backend to Render/Railway, change this URL to your deployed server's URL.

Admin Dashboard Access

URL: Click "Admin Login" in the footer.

Default Email: naropilchildrenfoundation@gmail.com

Default Password: admin123 (Change this via database or build an update password endpoint before production).

Deployment Recommendations

Frontend: Deploy index.html on Netlify, Vercel, or GitHub Pages.

Backend: Deploy server.js on Render, Railway, or an AWS/DigitalOcean VPS.

Database: Use a managed MySQL service like Aiven, PlanetScale (if adjusting MySQL syntax), or Railway MySQL.